Separate articles and recommendations (#1173)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/basics/vpn-overview.en.md

---
title: VPN Overview
icon: material/vpn
---

> Virtual Private Networks are a way of extending the end of your network to exit somewhere else in the world. An ISP can see the flow of internet traffic entering and exiting your network termination device (ie. modem).
> 
> Encryption protocols such as HTTPS are commonly used on the internet, so they may not be able to see exactly what you're posting or reading but they can get an idea of the [domains you request](/basics/dns.md/#why-shouldnt-i-use-encrypted-dns).
> 
> A VPN can help as it can shift trust to a server somewhere else in the world. As a result, the ISP then only sees that you are connected to a VPN and nothing about the activity that you're passing into it.

Author: ```suggestion
Typically, Internet Service Providers can see any internet traffic entering and exiting your network. Encryption protocols such as HTTPS are commonly used on the internet, so they may not be able to see *exactly* what you're posting or reading, but they can get a general idea of things like the [domains you request](/basics/dns.md/#why-shouldnt-i-use-encrypted-dns).

A VPN can help in this situation, as it allows you to shift trust to a server somewhere else in the world. As a result, your ISP only sees that you are connected to a VPN, but nothing about the activity that you're passing into it.
```
